After creating a form, we need a flight data after user search.
For that we need to use API and we will call it flight data.
We will use rapid API.
We have given the link of API in the link section.
You have to go to your browser and paste the link.
After that you will reach here.
Here you will get the API by searching flight fare.
First of all you have to sign up here.
After signing up in this platform, you have to click on subscribe to use.
Then you will get a pricing in this section.
This is the basic plan.
You have to click on subscribe.
First you will sign up.
Then you will come to pricing and click on subscribe.
After that you have to come to endpoints.
After coming to endpoints, you will see here.
Here you will get the full API data on the right side.
First of all you will click on node.js.
And here you will go.
Then you will go to node.js.
And here you will go to the end and click on fetch.
So we will extract our data from the API in this way
then you have to copy all this.
And after copying you have to come back to the VS code.
So I have already made my account.
So when you copy the account, you will get your API here.
I have made my account here already.
So I have also copied it.
First of all, I will go to the top and paste the handleSummit function in the handleSummit function.
Now there are some things to pay attention to.
The first thing is that you have to set these things in the URL method.
For example, by doing formData.from and formData.to, what will happen here is that we will be taking these things from the form.
And we will be setting these things in the API.
And then in the end,
you have to set the currency as INR.
Because it is in Indian Rupees.
After that,
these things like your formData etc.
We will be defining functions for these things as well.
Before that, you will have an async function here.
So you have to define the async here.
After that, what you have to do is,
first of all, you have to remove the handleInputChange function from here.
You have to put it at the top.
And here you have to do a copy.
And in the handleInputChange, we have to do some things.
What will those things be?
The first thing is that we will pass the event here.
What will the handleInputChange function be doing here?
Whatever the user is writing,
all of that will be saved here.
In the handleInputChange.
So here it will check that if the user has made some changes in the form,
entered some parameters,
which we have done last time in the movie.
How we have extracted the values from the form using the event.
So we will do the same thing here.
Here we will use some object destructuring.
So first of all, you remove the console.log from here.
And what to do here?
First of all, you write const here.
And you will put two things in it.
Name and value.
What will happen here?
Now I am going to tell you nicely.
Before that, I will write my whole function first.
What will you do by using event.target?
All the values that the user will enter,
we will fetch from there.
And after that here,
a formData name,
which we will make a state now,
you will put all the values in it.
So here we will
something like this.
Here we will use object destructuring
to set the name and value.
So now I am going to
explain you what to do.
Ok.
Now what we have to do?
What we have to do here is
that we have to take data from the form first.
What will we take in the data?
We will take name and value.
For example,
our first input form is this.
Here we are taking data from from.
So what is its name here?
From.
And what will be its value?
The value that the user will enter will be its value.
So from here,
from the input named from,
we will take the value of the user who will enter.
And we will set it
in the formData name state.
So first of all,
we will make a state of formData name.
So here we make a state of formData name.
And here we will write setFormData.
And this state,
what will it be storing?
It will be storing
one object.
Javascript object.
Javascript object is something like this.
Here we will write from.
After this,
it will be storing the second thing,
to.
After this,
it will be storing the third thing,
date.
After this,
it will be storing the fourth thing,
time.
After this,
it will be storing the first thing,
date.
All these,
I will tell you
very nicely
as much as is happening here,
just you have to write
these things with me.
You keep doing these things,
and I will explain it to you
from a good time.
Okay.
So what did we do now?
First,
let's understand it once again.
What did we do first?
Made the form.
The first thing.
Now,
second thing,
we used API here.
API,
Then we picked up the code from API and put it in the function of handleSummit.
Now when the user clicks on the submit button, the API will search the data first.
Before that, the user will have to store the form data somewhere.
Where will we store it? We will store it in the state named formData.
We have made a state named formData.
We could have made a different state for form, for two, for date and then set the data one by one.
But this would have been a lengthy and time-taking process.
That's why we made a state in which we stored from, to, date, and adults and seed type using JavaScript object.
And now what we did is,
whenever there are changes in the user form,
the handleInputChange function will be called.
And it will set the data in the form.
That is, it will set the data according to the name and the value.
First it will take the name from here.
It will see the name is from.
So what will it do?
It will use the object destructuring here.
The meaning of object destructuring here is that
it will first copy this whole thing and bring it here.
The dot dot form data.
And then the name,
the name is setting the value of from.
So the name is from.
So the name from here,
which is in the parameter object,
will set the value in this whatever the user has entered.
Okay?
And our value will be this.
event dot target, whatever the user is writing there.
That thing.
So now I think everything will be clear,
how it is working.
And now let's save it from here.
And let's see handleSummit one more time.
Now see one more thing here.
This is the URL in handleSummit.
This is actually the API of flightflare.
Now this is the API of flightflare.
What data has gone here?
The data of from has gone here.
Where we have entered the form data dot from.
What is the form data?
Here is our state.
After this,
sorry,
the second thing is the form data dot two.
Where this two data has gone.
The third thing is the form data dot date.
The date which will be entered by the user.
Then how many adults are there.
And the seed type will be entered.
Now actually here you must have seen
that I have set the results to one.
Because all the other types,
what are they?
They are string types.
These strings are storing here.
But it is storing an integer.
So we have to put a default value.
So we put one.
Suppose the adult user did not put any value.
So he will take one by default.
And what will happen after this?
Here you can see try and catch.
Here error handling is happening.
Exceptional handling as we call it.
What happens is,
if this thing does not work,
if it gives any error,
then your code will not work.
Your website will not crash.
It will simply show the error in the console.
Ok.
So in try,
we put the code which we think
that there can be any possibility of error here.
And in catch,
what we put is that
if there is any error,
then what to do after that.
Ok.
Now what will we do?
Our whole form,
worm,
everything is ready.
Once we go to our website.
And before that,
we check the terminal.
Is there any error coming?
So here we are getting an error.
It is written that
in line number 17,
the form data is not defined.
Form data is not defined in line number 17.
And here is one thing,
that we have to see once,
that we have done all this form data properly.
And line number 17,
which is this.
Here you will see one thing,
we have done format data instead of form data by mistake.
So here we remove this.
Now we save.
Once we check the terminal.
And still there is an error coming.
Set flights data is not defined.
And flights data is also not defined.
Ok.
So once we minimize it.
So now there is one more thing.
Which is flights data.
That is,
now what we will do,
API,
after calling API,
the API data that will be sent to us,
we have to set it somewhere.
API will also send some data.
And that data is usually in the form of our array.
The one you saw last time.
So first we will make a state here.
And first we will set the flight data.
const
flight
data
flight data
And here we will do set
equals to
here,
we will create a useState.
In which we will
give an empty array.
And you see another thing,
here in Award.
What we have done here,
After copying all the code,
you have to add these things.
That you have to set flight data too.
So in FlightData
We give an array named research.
The object named results is given.
It has an array named results.
That is,
in the resultNom object
itself,
the full list of results
is given to us.
so you set the data like this and after that you can check by logging the data
what is the response given to you by AAP
now after this, I think all our errors have been resolved
let's see it properly
flight data ok ok
ok flights data
and set flights data
ok now let's check the terminal and see
all the errors have been resolved
now we go to our browser
and as soon as we come to the browser
we do one thing, we put anything here
like we put from delhi to bombay
after this we put the third thing here
date
like yesterday is 29 so I am putting the date of 29
and how many adults are we traveling
for example one adult is traveling
and traveling in economy
you will click on find fares
here is the form
you can see that our page is being loaded
means it is being reloaded
our page is being reloaded
now what you do with this
first of all you go
and check your console
you see in the console you have not found any object
why you have not found
why you have not got the API
so here is one problem
the problem is that the form is being reloaded
we don't want the form to be reloaded
because if the form is reloaded
then all your data will be removed
so first we have to stop the form from being reloaded
so we go to our
VS code
and in handle submit
here we use one thing in javascript
which is
handle prevent default
what does prevent default do
it stops the form from being reloaded
ok
and
ensures that all your data is sent to the API
so before that
we will put a parameter named event
and
event will tell us
whether the form has been submitted or not
so we will do event.preventDefault
so when we will submit a form
that is also an event
so we have given it an event name
event.preventDefault
what will happen
that
here whenever you will submit a form
then your form will not be reloaded
so that your data can reach the API
ok
and before that we will do one more thing
.log
the data of the form
which the user is actually submitting
we have set it in the form data name state
we will also
log it once and see
now we will go to our terminal
first we will check the errors
there is no error
now we will go to the browser
now we will write in the form
for example delhi
in 2 we will write
bombay
here we will select the date of tomorrow
select address 1
and let the type be economy
click on find fares
now see our form has not been reloaded
now we will
go once and
check the console
and we got an object in the console
and you can see the object
this is the object
which the user has given the data of the form
user has put adult 1
today's date
and after this
from where the user is going
how far will it go
seat type
all the things
have come here
once we check our app.jso
and for now it is telling
empty array
so there are some problems here
like our seat type did not come
and this form
did not come
so let's check it once
what is the problem
so let's go back to our vscode
and let's check it once
is there any problem
here form
this form is nothing
first of all it is from
so we will go here first
and form
first thing
and second thing
which is that seat type
seat type is actually this
and let's go down here and see
from here our
our form
what have we put in it
so in this also
we have put seat type only
so for now
there should be no problem here
now let's save it once
and
before that
we
let's ensure some more things
that our api
there is no problem in it
we did not put anything wrong in it
form did not come
ok
now let's save it once
let's go back to the browser
and
try one more time
let's try
so here we put
dehli
from dehli to bombay
yesterday's date
in the...
we add one...
this time we choose
seat type something else
business
and this time
we click it in the find face
again we go to our
console
now here we have
got object
we see the object
now see
now everything is coming
that means
we are getting
this one
date
from where
to where
to go
Now let's see the second array and here also the length is 0.
This means that the API response is not working.
API is not returning any data to us.
This means that either tomorrow's flights are not available or something else.
Let's change its date once.
Let's change it to adults and do this.
Let's go back to Find Fairs.
We have this object here.
After this, the data will also come here which is still undefined.
Let's check it again.
Let's go to VS Code.
Let's go to check the results of our API.
Let's see what problem is coming here.
Here we have done something like this.
We have fetched the data from the URL.
All the options have gone.
After this, here are some things.
We have taken our result in JSON form.
We have set the data here by doing result.results.
Let's do one thing.
Let's not set the data here.
For now, let's comment it.
After this, here is the place to console log the flights data.
Let's try it once directly.
console.log
The actual data which is coming from the API.
Result.
Let's log it.
Let's go back once.
Let's see it again.
Let's click on Find Fairs.
This is the object.
Now the response of the API has come.
See, the status is 200.
The response of the API has been successful.
Now we have full data here.
Search data.
Here the results have come.
And inside the results, our full arrays have come.
And here we have full data.
So we have full data of the result.
Now what do we do with this?
Now let's go back to the VS Code and check this thing.
So this thing is inside result.results.
So now let's uncomment this thing from the API.
And let's remove this.
No, let's not leave this too.
And here in result.results, you were able to see that there were two arrays coming.
One array had 100 results and the other had 100 more results.
So now we will pick the first array here.
Which was the first array with 100 results.
Now let's go and check in the browser.
Ok.
So now here we have clicked on find fields once again.
After this, see, we have now got the result.
This is our full result that has come to us.
And this is the full result.
This is the full result that we have now.
Now our API is the correct response.
It is giving the correct response.
Ok.
We will go back.
And let's see if we try to pick everything instead of 0839.
And remove console.log results.
And now let's go once again.
Once again.
First of all, let's clear our console.
And here let's do find fields again.
And now it may take some time for the API response to come.
So the API response has come.
And we have got the full results array.
So now we can see that we have got the full result.
What actually happens sometimes is that there is a problem in the API.
So due to that also it does not come.
But now we are getting all the results.
Arrival airport.
Then baggage.
And all these options.
Flight name.
Code.
We have got everything.
So now what we have to do.
Now we just have to show this data.
The data which is coming to us.
To the user.
So for that we will make a component.
In which we will show the flight data of the user.